feat(eslint-plugin): [no-import-type-side-effects] add rule to warn against runtime side effects with `verbatimModuleSyntax` (#6394)
typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint: packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/no-type-imports-with-verbatim-side-effects.md

---
description: 'Enforce the use of top-level import type qualifier when an import only has specifiers with inline type qualifiers.'
---

> 🛑 This file is source code, not the primary documentation location! 🛑
>
> See **https://typescript-eslint.io/rules/no-type-imports-with-verbatim-side-effects** for documentation.

> The [`--verbatimModuleSyntax`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#verbatimModuleSyntax) compiler option causes TypeScript to do simple and predictable transpilation on import declarations, namely it completely removes import declarations with a top-level `type` qualifier, and it removes any import specifiers with an inline `type` qualifier.

Reviewer: [Nit] Smaller sentences for more understandability (my editors would be pleased to see this):

```suggestion
The [`--verbatimModuleSyntax`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#verbatimModuleSyntax) compiler option causes TypeScript to do simple and predictable transpilation on import declarations.
Namely, it completely removes import declarations with a top-level `type` qualifier, and it removes any import specifiers with an inline `type` qualifier.
```

The latter behavior does have one potentially surprising effect in that in certain cases TS can leave behind a "side effect" import at runtime:

```ts
import { type A, type B } from 'mod';

// is transpiled to

import {} from 'mod';
// which is the same as
import 'mod';
```

> For some rare cases, this may be desirable - but for many cases you will not want to leave behind an unnecessary side effect import.

Reviewer: [Nit] Making it more clear what this is referring to:

```suggestion
For the rare case of needing to import for side effects, this may be desirable - but for most cases you will not want to leave behind an unnecessary side effect import.
```
